The Joe Rogan experience. What was your first gig? Like what was the first,
first professional gig that you got, where it was like, holy,
I'm getting paid to do makeup.
Well, I mean, the first time I ever got paid, actually you did.
I think I did a makeup for a stage actor who wanted to be old
and I charged him $75 and,
um, which was, you know, more money than I ever gotten from anything before.
Like I said, I just came up with a number in your head. Yeah. Well,
I kind of somehow figured it out, but, uh, anyways, I,
I did these pieces for him and, uh,
he lived off that Pasadena freeway. That one, it has a weird right ankle.
Uh off-ramps you know,
and my dad drove me there cause they couldn't and I didn't drive at the time.
And,
and he actually had a makeup kit and had some hair pieces in and a bunch of
stuff. And he said, you know,
I will trade you this instead of giving you the $75,
I'll give you this makeup case and with full of this stuff. And I was like,
yeah, that's really cool. You know, but my dad wanted to teach me, you know,
responsibilities and stuff. And this was around the time I, I,
I think I was like 16 and was going to try to drive and he goes a year.
Uh,
my insurance is going to go up and what you have to do is you have to get that
money and you have to give me the money to, for the rate of the insurance.
That's going up. It's was like, oh man, I really want this makeup kit. But,
but I mean, I had amazing parents who, I mean, I wouldn't have been,
I wouldn't be who I am if it wasn't for them. I mean, that's cool.
They supported me at my crazy decision to make monsters for a
living. Well, they must've.
Been so happy when it paid off though. Yeah.
I was glad that they lived long enough to see that.
And I got to bring my parents to the Oscars a few times and, and uh, you know,
they were, they were very proud and, and, uh, and you know,
it was funny cause I mean, I had like my mom's brother and my uncle would,
you know, say stuff like, you know,
when is Ricky gonna stop doing this silly stuff and do something he can make a
living at, you know, and what is he going to grow up? But yeah,
all those people, but you know, my dad basically never grew up in,
I knew I never was going to, you know, what was your dad?
What'd he do for a living? He did a bunch of different things.
He was a high school dropout because he had to help his family.
His mother and father had, you know,
paid bills and he had a variety of not very good jobs.
He worked at Sears as a sales man. He drove a truck, he did stuff,
but he was always,
he was very creative and it was kind of held down in his lifetime. You know,
don't do that. You can't run, you know, do something, you can make a living.
And because of that, I benefited from that. He supported the creativity.
And when I, um, I think it was a sophomore in high school,
he decided he wanted to try to make a living as an artist.
And we lived on my mom's bank teller salary for a number of years.
He hardly made any money at all. Um, but he was happy, you know? And,
and he, uh, because I mean, like I said, he,
he supported my creativity and he was really my first teacher. He,
he shot showed me what you could do with pain.
He knew a little bit about sculpture, you know, uh, he,
he was also a fan of monster movies, you know, and he, you know, he saw,
you know, the Frederick March, Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde when it came out,
you know, and told me all about it.
And that was a movie that they didn't have on TV that I really wanted to see,
you know, and he said, uh, when he saw it in the theaters, you know,
he wouldn't have had to hide his eyes or high by the seat, you know,
and I so wanted to see that. And, and he also said, you know, war of the worlds,
the George Powell, that was so cool and the sound effects were great.
And that was never on either in, when I was in the seventh grade,
I think it was, I, uh,
decided to get on the student council for the main reason.
This was my plan was I suggested that we could raise money for the school by
having showing movies after school, we could rent 16 Miller movies,
16 millimeter movies and show them and charge admission.
And I basically just went through all the movies. I hadn't seen that.
I wanted to see and got those, you know,
and there were maybe four or five people that showed up to see him,
but I was happy.
That's awesome. What was the first film that you did special?
First film was a film called the Octo man.
And it's kind of a cult classic because it's such a crappy movie. You know,
it was shot in 10 days, uh, at it all at Bronson canyon, uh, in,
in Griffith park when there was a night. Uh, see,
I graduated from high school in 1969 and I went to two years to a junior
college, uh, 69, 70, 71, uh, I guess it was.
And you went from that to star wars only like five or six years later, right?
Yeah. Something like that. Yeah, that's crazy. Yeah. And king Kong and
[inaudible], I didn't design, oh my goodness.
Look at that.
But I mean, this was, I was a full-time student.
I had six weeks and like, uh,
I think a thousand dollars to make this suit. And, uh, so I,
after school, uh, I, and I got my, a friend,
the very first job I ever had actually this and this again happened because of
my dad when he was a truck driver, uh, delivering plumbing supplies. Uh,
he went to the wrong building in the building he went into was called Chloe
productions and they made Gumby and David and Goliath stop motion animation,
which I did stop motion as well, big Ray Harryhausen fan, you know? Um,
and for some reason I grew up in Covina, which is east of LA,
like 30 or 40 miles. And wasn't in there wasn't anything film related out there,
but for some reason Clarkies was out there. Um,
I think because it was cheaper rent and he,
I was my, on my quarter a week allowance.
When I found a place I could buy rubber, it was like eight,
almost $9 for a quarter rubber. And, you know,
it took me a lot of weeks in a lot of more lines and a lot of stuff to save up
that money. And I said, I need to, I need a job. So I, I didn't have a car.
We only had one car in the family. And, you know, I went to any place.
I could walk to a supermarkets, you know, bus, boys, all that stuff.
Nobody wanted me. And, um, my dad said, oh,
I remember this place and did stop motion and you'd stop motion, you know,
maybe. So I went there with my box of stuff, you know, and,
and it was summer vacation between my junior and senior year of high school.
And they said, start tomorrow, uh, got paid minimum wage, which I think was,
you know, a dollar twenty-five or something at the time.
But that place was like a magnet for any weird kid or any kid.
It was like a stop motion fan,
any stop motion person would show up there at one point or another.
And I met this guy named Doug Beswick, who was a few years older than me.
And we became again, fast friends, you know, he read famous monsters.
He was a Ray Harryhausen fan. And Doug, uh, when I did this, this, uh,
Octa manned film, Doug had a, uh,
a little workshop and we did it in his workshop and we did it together. Wow.
But yeah, it was a,
it was a real introduction to the film industry because it was the very first
days filming, filming in Bronson canyon, Griffith park. Uh, we show up,
we went and Doug's 57 Chevy. It had Okta man in the backseat, you know, and,
and we show up there and looking around and there's nobody there. And I go,
what the hell? You know? So, and this is before cell phones and all that. Uh,
so we'd have to go. We went back down the hill, down Bronson canyon to it.
Like there was a market there and I got a pay phone called the production
office. And it was like, oh yeah. W uh, we pushed one day.
We just forgot to tell you, you know, it's like a movie called the Octa man.
You forgot to tell the people who were making the up demand,
the title character of the movie that you weren't filming.
And it was also, I mean, they,
that's a perfect introduction to the movie industry though. Oh, it was. And,
and I learned that, that, you know, you can't believe anything. They tell you,
you know, I mean, th it was designed by somebody else. And, uh,
I got this job handed down through people I met at cloggy. So, uh,
it was going to be stop motion. At one point,
they decided that was too expensive. They're going to make a suit.
And first thing I did was a little maquette and, uh, um,
a little what MCAT has a small sculpture of the design, but I said,
there's cause he had, they,
they tried to figure out how they could do eight tentacles on a man and his feet
kind of like turned into tentacles and it kind of split off and to a back
technical. But I said, I think they look like elf shoes and it,
and it was not a good way for me to join the two things together. And it's like,
kid, don't worry about it.
There's only going to be one shot of the Okta man in the movie where you
actually see it. The rest of the time is just gonna be a shadow or a glimpse,
you know, but we'll have a money shot where you can, you know,
make sure it looks great. The movie starts out with a closeup of his feet,
you know, basically, you know, uh, and you know, it was,
it was a real introduction to, I,
I thought it was going to be like working on eight millimeter,
millimeter movies like I did as a kid, you know,
everybody just jumps in and we're making a movie, let's do it. Right? Yeah.
Wasn't that the DP, the director of photography,
because I had long hair and Doug had long hair, he called us the girls.
This was at a time when long hair was, you know,
we'll get the girls to get their silly monster suit out, you know? Um,
uh, but we, there was a,
if you can believe this there's the Octa man was written by the guy that
was the writer of creature and black lagoon. And he also wrote,
it came from outer space. Ah,
so it was basically those two scripts combined with Evolut, uh, with, uh,
ecology thrown in. Uh, and he,
we, you know, it was like, there's this day where instead of in, you know,
in the creature, they, they put a log across the lagoon and they can't get out.
You know, here,
it was a log across the street and they're driving it away to go Winnebago and
they can't get out. They get out to try to get the log out and they,
they opened the Winnebago door and the Okta man's in there and he knocks a guy
down and then they supposed to the other,
guy's supposed to pick up a log and throw it to the Octa man and uncle,
you know, where's the prop log that we're going to use. And, and, uh,
and you know, he goes, what's that, it's that? And I go, that's,
it's a tree limb. You know, I got it.
That's going to hurt the guy in the suit and it's going to hurt the suit,
you know? And I go, and we were going to rehearse this, right? He goes, no,
we don't have time to rehearse it. And I go, what, oh, when he,
the document's supposed to bend over and pick up the pier, Angela,
who was the female lead,
who killed herself after this movie can tell you how good the movie was.
You know? Um, I said, when he goes to pick her up, let's cut there.
Because if you cut,
I can wrap the tentacles around her and I'll look more like he's holding her.
You know? So anyways, they started filming without rehearsing.
Octa man opens the door and knocks a guy down,
guy picks up a log throws at the Octa. Man hits him, rips the suit.
He goes walking over and he's virtually blind.
He's looking out of two little holes out this far away. You know,
it was a real claustrophobic suit. The poor guy, Reed, Morgan,
who play the document was great to deal with,
but it was very hard suit to where he goes to pick up here. Angelie,
nobody says cut. So he picks her up.
So walking around the guy who knocked on the ground is laying on the ground
spread Eagle. He ends up stepping right on his nuts, oh, falls over backwards,
throws pure up against the Winnebago, oh,
she's crying and says he wants her mother, the other guy's holding her nuts.
The guy broke his hand cause a log fell on his hand and everybody's screaming.
I'm going to hit my soup. And we lost a day out of our 10 day shooting schedule.
So Harry Essex, who was the director and writer, uh,
was tearing pages out of the script. Like, we don't need this,
we don't need this. We don't need this.
And then when they tried to make a movie out of it, it made no sense. I mean,
I think the first 20 minutes are stocked footage. If you know,
in the beginning there was nothing. And then, you know,
then there was slime and then, you know, the whole, I can't wait to watch.
There's a, I think it's in public domain now. I think it's on YouTube,
but there's a, Blu-ray out of it as well.
I might have to fire up a joint wash that one. Now, when you went,
when you look back on that, you mean it's gotta be kind of,
even though it sounds like a, it seems like it's kind of a fond memory as well,
because that where it started, it was,
you got to see how much nonsense there is in the movie industry,
but you also got a chance to get going. Yeah.
And, and I got, you know, we,
we came up with a way to do this because we couldn't,
it's a foam rubber suit in former brands to be baked in an oven.
We didn't have a big oven. We didn't have the means. So we,
we came up with a clever solution and that's what I had to do so many times in
films do things that people hadn't done before on a budget and schedule,
you know, and, and try to figure out. And that's part of the fun,
but what was cool about the Optima and the male lead was Kerwin Matthews who was
Sinbad in the four, just in bed.
And I get a Ray Harryhausen film and I was big fan of, you know, so, uh,
one of the first things I had to do,
there's a scene where the document's technical supposed to creep through this
cave opening. And they basically wadded up some tarpaper.
And I stood behind the tar paper and Bronson caves and stuck my hand in this
technical and did this. And when Kerwin walked by, I said,
super dynamo nation, which is what Ray, Harry has his technique.
He called for a few films. And he said, oh, you know about that. You know?
So I thought that was really cool.